What is react?
React is a open source javascript Library.
react is used for buliding user interfcaes(UI).
React simplifies the creation od single page application by using resluable components

What are key features of react?
1.vitrual DoM
2.resuable components.
3.component based Architrcture
4.JSx (javascripy XML)
5.Declarative syntax
6.commounity ecosystem 
7.Hooks

1.vitual DOM :
Virtual DOm is an in - memory represenattaion of the real DOM.
What ever presents in real DOM, it is having the same, when ever any changes done in real it takes the only the changes and update in DOM.
it improves the performance of Application.
Render Phase: The component’s render method is called, creating a new Virtual DOM tree.
This tree represents the updated state of the component.
React uses a diffing algorithm to determine the differences between the previous Virtual DOM and the new Virtual DOM.
Comparison: React compares the new Virtual DOM tree with the previous one. This is done efficiently by comparing nodes and their properties.


2.Reusability & Composition:
It react enables the creation of resuable componnets that can be composed together
and can be used anywhere in application.

3.component based:
react structures user interfcae as modular, it will divide into components, it gives the maintaniblity and scalable approce to bulid the app.

4.JSx(javascript XML):
JSX is a syntax textension for the javascript used in the react
allow users to write html like code with javascript, enhacning readability and maintianbility.

5.Declarative syntax:
React have a Declarative programming style(JSX), where developrs focus on the UI should look like
and react handles the how behind the scenes,this simplfy the code.

6.commounity and Ecosystem.
react benifits from a vibrant and extensive community,contributing to arich ecosystem
of libraries,tools and resources.

7.Hooks:
Hooks, are functions that enables the functional components to manage the state mand life cycle methods
which provides a more concise and expressive way to hanlde component logic.

What is DOM? what is diffrence B/w HTML and DOM?
DOm is (Doucment object Model) represents the web page as tree like struture which allows javascript
to dynamically access and manipluate the content and struecture of a web page.

What is Virtual DOM? diff b/w virtual DOm and real DOm?
React uses a virtual DOm to efficent upadte the UI without render the entire page , whcihc helps improve the 
performance and make the application more responsive

diffrence
DoM
1.Dom is actual represenation of webpage.
2.re renders the entire page when upadtes occur
3.can be slower especially with frequent updates.
4. suitable for static websites and simple applications

Vitrual DOM
1.its s lightweight copy of the DOM.
2.when there is any changes then only re renders
3.optimized for faster rerendering
4.ideal for dynamic and complex single page applications with frequesnt updates.

What are react components? what are the main elements of it.
React components are buliding block for creating user interfaces.
everything in react is like components, like header and footer sindenav ecosystem

What is SPA(Single page Application)
A single page Aplication is web application that have only single web page.
whenever user do some action on the webiste, then in response is dynamically updated without refreshing or loading a new page

What are 5 advantages of react?
1.Simple to bulid Single page (by using resuable componnets)
2.React is cross platfrom and open source libraray
3.lightweight and very faster
4.Large community and Ecosystem.
5.test is easy.

What are the disadantages of react?
Its not good for the small applications.

What is role of jsx in react?
1. JSX stands javascript XML
2.jsx is used by react to write HTML like code
3.JSX is converted to javscript via tools like babel.beacuse browser will understand javasccript not jsx

What is diffrence b/w Declarative and impertaive?
// Declarative
Declarative syntax focus on describing the desired reslut without specigying the step by step process
JSX in react used to write the declarive syntax

impertaive
Impertaive syntax invoves step by step process to achive a prticular goal
Javascript has an impertaive syntax

What is arrow function expression?
syntax is diffrence it like fat arrow function
the arrow function expression syntax is aconsie way of defining functions
const Arrowfunc =(props) =>{
    retrun(
        <div?>{props.name} </div?
    )
};
export default Arrowfunc;

How to setup react project?
1. install nodejs
2.install VScode
3.install react app - npx create-react-app my-app(app name)
4.npm start (to start/run application)


What are main files in react project?
index.html - single page for react application.
componnets - your application components
App.js - Main componnet or container or root component
App.test - for writing unit test cases
index.css -its aglobal css file that servesd the main stylesheet for enitr app
index.js - entry point for javascript. renders main react components in the root DOM elements

How does the react app load and display the components in bowser?
index.html file load , then from there index.js will load that is entry point from there it will call the root
component called the app.jsx from here child components will call.

What is diff b/w react and angular ?
Both are used to create single page UI applications using components.

//react
1.It is javascript libraray.
2.react uses a virtual DOM, which makes a faster
3.Recact is smaller size and lightwright andf therefore faster sometime.
4. react depends on external libraries for many complex features, so dveloper ha to write many lines of code for complex function
5.react is simple to learn and more popular than angular.




//Angular
1. Angualr is a complete framework
2.Angualr uses a real DOM
3.Angualr is bigger beacuse it is complete framework.
4.since angular is complete frame work there fore it provde built in support for features like routing, forms AND HTTP 
4.Angular is slightly difficult to lrean as it has , typescript , opps concept and amny more

What are 5 js framework orther than react?
angualr js
emberjs
angular
vue js
backbone.js

whether react is framework or libraray?
1.developers import the libraries at the topthen use its functions in components.
2.react is commonly referred to as hjavascript.
1.Developers need to follow a spefic sturrcture or pattren defined by the frame work.
2.angular is framework.

How react provide resuablity and Composition?
react provides reusabilty and compostio through its component based architecture.
// resuablity
once you create a componnet, you can re-use it in diffrenets parts
of your application or even in mulitple projects.

//Composition
creating a new big components by combining existing small compnents.its advantage is , chnage to one
small componets will not impact other components.

What are state, stateless,stateful and state management terms?
State refers to the current data of the component.
stateful or state management means, when a user perfoms some actions on the UI
then the react application should be able to updateand render that data or state on the UI
stateless means when you try to update something on UI, after intial State
 not updating or re rednring the state the it is stateless component.


What are props in jsx?
porps/properties
props are a way yo pass data from parent component to child component
<childComponent name ="divya />
function Childcomponent(props){
    retrun <div>{props.name} </div>
}

what is NPM? what is role of node_modules?
npm(node package manager)
NPM is used to manage the dependencies for your react project.
including react library itself.

Node modules folder contains all the dependencies of the project
including the react libraries.

What is the role of pubilc folder in react?
Public floder contains the static assets that served directly 
to the users's browser such as images, fonts, and then index,html file 

What is the src floders in react?
src floders used to store  all the source code of the application which is then responsible
for the dynamic changes in your application.

what is purpose of index.html?
it is insdie the public floder
index.html file is the main html file(SPA) in react application
Here the div with "id=root" will be replaced by the component inside index.js file

what is role of index.js file and reactDOM in react?
React Dom is javascript library that renders componets to the DOm or Browser
The index.js file is the javascript file that replaces the root relement of the inedx.html file with the newly rendered components.

what is the role of app.js?
defulat component of react is app.js
  app,js file contain the root componet of react application.
  app component is like container for other components
  app.js defines the structure ,root and layout in the application.

what is role of function and retrun inside the app.js?
function keyword is uses to define a javascript function that represents your react component.
it is like a placeholder which contians all the code or logic of component.
it takes in props as its argument and retruns jsx.
retrun is used to retrun the ements from the function


can we have a function without a retrun inside app.js?
No , to show reslut or to retrun elements we need retrun function.
yes, when you no need to retrun any elements.

what is role of export default inside app.js?
export statement is used to make a component avalibale for import using "import" statement in other files

JSX
What is the role of JSX?
Jsx stands for javascript XML
jsx is used by react to write HTML -like code
jsx is converted into javascript by tools like babel.
beause browser undersatnd only javascript not jsx

Advantages of JSX
1.type safety
2.imporve code readlibity and writebility
3.support javascript expressions
4.imporved performance
5.code resuablity

what is babel?
babel in react is used to trasplie JSX syntax into regular javascript which 
browser can understand.

what is role of fragment in jsx?
<> </> fragment
In react , a fragment is away to group multiple childer's element.
using a fragment prevents the addition of unnecessary nodes to the DOM.

What is spread Operator in jsx?(...)
it is used to spread /expand an array or object.
<ChildComponents>{...props}</ChildComponents>

What are the types of conditional rendering in jsx?
1.if elese
2.ternary Operator
3.&& operator 
4.Switch statement.

how do you iterarte over a list in jsx? what is map method?
const numbers =[1,2,3,4,5,6]
numbers.map((num) =>numbers*2)
it allows you to iterate over an array and modify its element using a callback function.

can a browser reac a jsx file?
No,browser cannot directly interpret or understand jsx files
babel takes jsx and converts it into equivalent javascript code that browser can undersatnd

what is transplier? what is diff b/w compiler & transplier
transplier : it is tool that converts source code from one high level programming
langugae to another high level programming langugae
example:babel
complier: it is atool that converts high level programming langugae to low
level programming language(machine code or bhytecode)


Components -Functional.Class
What are react components? what are main elements of it?
In react a component is aresuable buliding block for creating interfaces
export , import nad function retrun are main elements of react component

What are types of react components? what are functional components?
1.Functional components
functional components are declared as javascript functions
they are stateless component, but with the help of hooks they can now manage state also.
2.class components
class components are defined using javascript classes
they are stateful compoents by using lifecycle methods
render method in a class component is responsible for retruning Jsx

how do you pass data b/w components in functional ?
props are the way to pass data from one component to child componengt

What is prop drilling?
Props drilling is the process of passing dwon the props through multiple layers of compoments.
parent => child => Grand child

Why to avaoid prop drilling?in how many ways props drilling?
Maintenance: prop drilling can make code harder to maintian as chnages in data 
complexity: it increase code complexity
debugging : debugging becomes challenging when props need to be traced through numnerous components

5 ways to avaoud prop drilling:
1.using context API 
2.Using redux
3.uing callbacks
4.Using custom hooks

how to pass data b/w class components
this.props can be used in child component to access properties/data passed from parent component.
<ChildCompoent message={dataToSend} />
in child component
<p>message:{this.props.message} </p>
here this keyword is used to refer to the instance of the class.

diffrence between functional and class componets

1.syntax : defined as a JS function.          1. Defined as JS(ES6)class
2.Originally stateless but can now
maintain state using hooks                    2.can manage local state with this.state
3.lifecycle :No                               3.yes
4.readability:more readable and concise.      4.Verbose(complex)
5.this keyword: no                            5.yes
6.Do not have render method                   6.Have render method.


Routing 
What is Routing and router in react?
Routing allows you to create a single page web application with navigation
without full page refresh.

React router is a library for handling routing and nables the navigation 
and rendering diffrenet components bsed on the URL

command to install router -- npm install react-router-Dom
create navigation- here you have to create navigation links using LInk tag in app.js
create routes - here create routes using route tag and path you have to gives
finally in index.js wrap app.js in router 

What are roles of <Routes> and <Route> in react router?
The Routes componnet is used as the root container for declaring your collection of routes.
The <route> component is used to define aroute and specify the component that should 
render when the router matches.
For example, in this code if user enter websitename.com/about in url, thenmatching
"about"component will be render

what are route parameters in react routing?
Route parameters in react route are a way to pass dynamic values to the component as part of the URL path
<Route path ="/users/:userId"

What is the role od switch component in routing?
switch component ensures that only the first matching <Route> is rendered and rest are ingonred
for example, switch is commonly used to handle 404 or "not found"routes.

what is the role of exact prop in react routing?
exact prop is used with the <route> component to match exactly to the provided path.
<Route path="/about" exact componet ={About} />


Higher order component?
An Hoc is function
that takes argument as function and retruns an new component, 
typcally wraps original component and inject additional porps .for resuablity and seapartion of concerns


In React, the choice between using class components and functional components depends on various factors, including complexity, requirements, and personal or team preferences. Here’s a detailed guide on when to use each:

Class Components
Class components are the traditional way of defining components in React. They have been a fundamental part of React before the introduction of Hooks.

When to Use Class Components:
Legacy Codebases:

Existing Code: If you’re working in a codebase that already heavily uses class components, it might make sense to continue using them for consistency.
Lifecycle Methods:

Lifecycle Hooks: Before Hooks were introduced, class components were the only way to use lifecycle methods like componentDidMount, componentDidUpdate, and componentWillUnmount. If you’re working with older code or if you need specific lifecycle methods that are complex to replicate with Hooks, class components are suitable.
Complex State Management:

State Logic: For complex state management or when dealing with multiple stateful logic pieces, class components can be more straightforward due to their explicit state and lifecycle management.
Error Boundaries:

Error Handling: Error boundaries (components that catch JavaScript errors anywhere in their child component tree) are implemented using class components.
Third-Party Libraries:

Library Integration: Some older third-party libraries or integrations might be designed with class components in mind, although this is becoming less common.
Example of a Class Component:
jsx
Copy code
import React, { Component } from 'react';

class Counter extends Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.state = {
      count: 0
    };
  }

  increment = () => {
    this.setState({ count: this.state.count + 1 });
  };

  componentDidMount() {
    console.log('Component mounted');
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <div>
        <p>Count: {this.state.count}</p>
        <button onClick={this.increment}>Increment</button>
      </div>
    );
  }
}

export default Counter;
Functional Components
Functional components are a simpler way to define components in React, especially with the introduction of Hooks. 
They are often preferred for their simplicity and ease of use
1.simplicity
2.Hooks
3.Performance
4.code resuablity

When to Use Class Components:
1.Legacy Codebases:
2.Lifecycle Methods: before hooks implememnted this only way to implement life cycle mentods
3.Complex State Management:For complex state management or when dealing with multiple stateful logic pieces, 
class components can be more straightforward due to their explicit state and lifecycle management.

// when you create a class based component, in background react creates a functional component and then it will render the class based component
so 3 step process, but they remove that in functional component


why we use calss name instead of class in react?
In React, className is used instead of class in JSX to avoid conflicts with JavaScript's reserved keyword class. This approach ensures that JSX can be 
integrated smoothly with JavaScript while still mapping to the correct HTML attributes.


In React, when working with class components, the super keyword is used in the constructor method to call the parent class's constructor. 
This is necessary to properly initialize the component and its state.


What is hgerr order component
higer order component is a component which takes another component as an argument and retruns extra fetures to anothe rcomponent
it used for providing logging functionality to all the components in aresuable ways

Three ways to achive state management
1.useState hooks - simple compoennt level
2.Usecontext - create context, provider, consumer,Usecontext -- to avaoid prop drilling,simplty data passing thrugh the componets
3.redux - large and complex state, having centrazlied store and actions provide a statemanagement


optimize react
1.memoization
2.react.framgament
3.lazy loading
4.code spliting